Welcome to...Balls! v1.0.2©1999 Andy BurnsRelease date: 05/22/1999THIS SOFTWARE IS ALWAYS FREE!!!WHAT IS IT? Balls! is a color hypercard program that lets you enter five and six ball Lottery games into gamelists, then run all games in the lists against the official winning numbers. After running Balls!, correct hits are displayed for each game. Balls! lets you customize a five and six ball lotto and supports optional bonus ball play for either.It's not a system. It doesn't do predictions. It's simply a lotto manager for your entertainment. If you play a lot of lotto tickets or you manage lotto pools, you gotta have Balls!SETTING UP Balls! First, you should go to the Prefs card and set-up your lotto rules for the five and six ball lottos. You enter the high number in the "Lotto 6/___" blank. If your lotto uses a bonus ball, you enter the high number in the "Bonus 6/___" blank and check the box. Follow the same instructions for the "Lotto 5/___" and "Bonus 5/___".     If your lottery changes rules, simply revisit the prefs card and make any changes.SWITCHING BETWEEN LOTTOS: To switch between the two lottos click on either the 6 Ball or 5 Ball logo. It toggles back and forth between the two.ENTERING GAMES: Click in the "Gamelist" area below a Balls! logo and type in one game per line. Put a comma between each number and end each line with a return. If your lotto uses a bonus ball, enter that number last in line.    You can also use the Balls! board. Open the Balls! board by clicking on "Board" in the button bar. It will flip open up a mouse-clickable board for you to use. Simply click on the balls you want. If you make a mistake, simply click on the ball and it will unhilite, then click the correct one. To close the board pane, just re-click on "Board" in the button bar again.    If you set up your lotto to use a bonus ball, an additional pane will open to choose the bonus ball from.    When you change the lotto rules, Balls! will automatically adjust (hide or display buttons) the button boards for you. New to release version 1.0.    When your numbers are correct press the "GO" button. The game will be added to the gamelist. The board is not cleared after a "GO" button press in case you make a mistake during entry. Simply re-click the wrong ball and click the correct one, then "GO" again.    The "VOID" button clears the board.    The "PICK" button generates a random quick-pick for you. As well, clicking on the "PICKÊSIX" (PICK FIVE, too) label above the button boards launches the board into a rather animated quick-picker. Similar in logic to pressing the "PICK" button, but more intense. Simply click the mouse to stop the action and reveal a quick-pick.    Holding down the command key will write all quick-picks during the animation to the gamelist (a debugging feature I left in), until you release it. NOTE: on fast macs, it will enter dozens of games in seconds.    Hold down the option key while clicking this label lets you adjust the speed of this feature in "ticks". It defaults to 0, but try increments of 30 or so, to see the difference.ERROR Ã: Before running the list it is a good idea to click "Error Ã" in the button bar. A series of tests will be run to validate the entries in the gamelist. If an error is found, it will display an alert describing the error and then try to display where it occurs in the list. This feature is not guaranteed. The Balls! button-boards shouldn't error. If they do, I'd like to hear about it.NOTES LINES: In the gamelists, any line starting with "/" is a note. Type any notes you care to record, ending with a return. If a notes line wraps to more than one line, that's OK. It will not interfere with game-checking.RUNNING Balls!: When winning results are official, type them into the "Official Winning Numbers" field, separated by commas. The bonus ball is last in line (if in use). Do not end the line with a return.    If you click on the "Official Winning Numbers" label, it will generate a random game to run against your entries.    Press the "Start" button to check for winning games. Balls! runs fastest when the Balls! board is closed.     Correct hits are underlined (for your verification) along with an optional sound for a winning game. Games which don't pay off are not displayed in the result column. If a game result shows --4b, that means you got four correct picks plus the Bonus ball.    NOTE: I made a decision based on my state lottos as to what designates a winning game. In 6 Ball and 5 Ball lottos, 3,4,5 and 6 picks are winners. If a bonus ball is used, all picks win if the bonus ball wins. If this is not true in your case, let me know.TALLY (Preference option): You can turn on a "Tally Display" in the preferences dialog. When it's on, a tally of all winning games are displayed at the top of the gamelist after the Balls! finishes.CHART: If you click on "Chart" in the button bar, a pane folds down to reveal a graph. To see a chart of numbers in the game list (a debugging feature I left in), click the "Chart" button. Since the bars get clipped at 59 (due to size constraints), clicking the mouse on a bar will display the number and how many occurances of that number, in the field in the bottomleft of the pane.    If you hold down the option key and click "Chart", a sample of 2000 picks will be charted. This is a whistle!?PREFERENCES. Click on "Prefs" in the button bar to open the preferences window. In this window you can adjust:¥ Lotto 6 & Lotto 5 rules and bonus rules.¥ Tally Display. Turns on or off the tally at the top of the gamelist.¥ Winning Game Sound. If this is on, each winning game will sound out a "Coin drop".¥ Finish Sound. You can choose from two sounds that will play after Balls! finishes running the gamelist. You can, optionally, turn this sound off entirely.¥ Scroll List. If selected, when you press start, Balls! will scroll the game list as it runs so you can see results as they happen.Enjoy and good luck!Regards,Andy Burnsfoxcat@nationwide.netDISCLAIMER:This software is made available to the public for educational purposes only. Use at your own risk.	   DISTRIBUTION:This software may be freely distributed, in it's original form, for non-commercial purposes only.Non-commercial distribution includes, but is not limited to:	¥ A product for sale. ¥ Accompanying a product for sale. ¥ Accompanying a magazine, book or other publication for sale. ¥ Distribution with 'Media', 'Copying' or other incidental costs. ¥ Available for download with access or download fees.